NSG: Disclaimer on the previous one, too. But
NSG: for this talk you know, bear with me. We'll make it custom for the people in the room and what you all are interested in talking about. But there's some core stuff that I think gets the the juices flowing and the conversation flow. And so hopefully, it'll be fun to go through. But I will skim parts that I don't think are particularly helpful or relevant.
Ankur Toshniwal: Can I ask? Can I ask one question? Do you.
NSG: Ask.
Ankur Toshniwal: Enough.
NSG: A 100 questions.
Ankur Toshniwal: Well, just before you kick it off. is what? What do you think is the reason why either you or the program decided that this is worthwhile to present now.
Ankur Toshniwal: compared to. He said it was the 1st time doing it. What maybe changed.
NSG: Yeah, yeah, so it it's covering some of the fundamentals of what a venture firm is, how it works who works there, what their incentives and motivations are a lot of things that like I, in my opinion, you could look up if you really wanted to know, but at the same time having a conversation about it, might unlock some more nuance that might color your approach and considerations about raising capital.
NSG: and it also gives you a unique interaction with me, because I don't know. You know, every Md. Doesn't have the same kind of background. But I've worked at, you know, 4 or 5 different. Vcs. I've been in the industry since I was a teenager.
NSG: I I have some perspective that might be helpful. That isn't just deck content that this could hopefully open up and get us to talk about.
Ankur Toshniwal: Gotcha. Well, what I meant was like, do you feel that previous founders have been unre unprepared in ways that you wanted them to, that you in. You wanted to introduce this kind of talk, or did some of your previous ones? You just.
NSG: I honestly don't even feel that way. No, I I don't feel that way at all. I think the stuff that you're gonna learn here is nice to have
NSG: like
NSG: we'll see if I think there's something essential that hasn't been said. I'm gonna call it out. Okay. How about that? Cause? I. I love your question, and I I can't give you a confident answer in it yet. But.
NSG: like, let's see what this is. Let's see what this is because in the beginning, you're gonna like this, most of this stuff, I think, is very easily like a A Gpt prompt
NSG: query like, Okay, yeah, this is how that works. Blah blah.
Chloe Lannert: Just like the Carta reports.
NSG: so okay, so let's let's just like dive in and like i'm gonna speed and then you stop me someone anchor, i'm looking at you. But everyone you stop me. If there's something that we want to slow down and get into and get nerdy about
NSG: so stages of Vc, right? So precede seed series a. Some people are don't like the term precede. I don't know, I don't really care. These are all just like labels that are arguable and debatable.
NSG: And like, I love this line. Because, by the way, this is a techsars, Master Deck. So everybody's looking at San Francisco. And we're like, we're a different beast. Yes, we are a different beast. I'm still understanding what it means to be that different beast. But I'm curious to know, if you guys feel that way.
NSG: do you feel like San Francisco is a different beast already. Is that your impression?
NSG: Okay, I'm getting some nods. Okay, no comment.
Andrew Fernandes: And what is it from what others have said? Yes.
NSG: You haven't felt it.
Andrew Fernandes: I don't think I've had enough interaction with other cohorts to really deeply understand it, but from what I've heard it's different.
NSG: I mean, almost 60% of all venture capital is deployed here.
NSG: So if that puts things in.
Ankur Toshniwal: It's hands down different. There's there's it's not even like a debatable kind of thing. It's like people here think differently. They also are. They will take meetings so much more quickly. It's insane like how quickly you can get angel meetings in Sf. Compared to other cities, even having been.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, even though there are top Vcs in New York. The ability to just even get a meeting is, in the 1st place, is just so much easier out of here, for sure.
NSG: Yeah. And and frankly, guys like, it's such a privilege for me to be here because I was like.
NSG: yeah, I was telling this anchor before everybody joined. But like, I'm like the anti Vc Vc. Guy, and like being in Chicago, I had so much pride of like, yeah, it's easy to raise in Silicon Valley. But it's hard to raise here, which means you have to have a great business, you know, like I had these lines, I like to say which is still true. But now that I'm here, I'm kind of like. Oh, well, I kind of like that. My founders can just
NSG: talk to investors whenever they want, and they have all these events. They can go to where they meet lots of the really smart, interesting people like, I'm not mad about it.
NSG: If you did, they send me back to Chicago. Maybe I'll go back to that same, you know line of thinking we'll we'll see, that's up to you guys. Cool. So oh, go ahead, Antoine.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, no. What? What I would say about the the difference from my standpoint is, it's just a lot faster, and it's a lot more kind of bigger scale, and so people will meet you quickly, but they will also form an opinion quickly. They will decide quickly, and they will move on quickly.
Antoine Carriere: And and so so it's kind of it's really important to be to be nimble and change your pitch right away if you kind of, because one. There's not that much memory. People will not remember what you've pitched a while ago, and there's a lot more kind of
Antoine Carriere: it's it, it just goes, it's faster and bigger. I I wouldn't say that it's easier to be honest. I think it's easier to raise money for the for for crappy stuff.
Antoine Carriere: I if you have like, if you can make it sound great.
Antoine Carriere: But
Antoine Carriere: I think I I don't know that it's it's really I wouldn't say it's easier to raise money here as a blanket statement.
NSG: Sure.
Antoine Carriere: It's a lot faster.
NSG: Trade-offs, too. Yeah, absolutely
NSG: cool. So you all also, I know, are familiar with the types of investors. There are maybe less so on the Cbc. And the non dilutive fronts. But there's angels as venture capitalists. There's corporate investors, and there's lots of non dilutive sources which we'll go deeper. Into.
NSG: But there's an expansion of these categories on the next slide here, where it kind of breaks down the different types of investor and what that kind of separates them.
NSG: So let me know if you all have any questions about this, but I think this is fairly.
NSG: you know, well known and understood.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: I have one quick question Neil. I don't have any experience with engine investor. Would that be like more difficult to be working with engine investors compared to Vcs, or like vice versa, or or is there any difference? We should be.
NSG: Yeah, great question, a smile. And I'm glad that you you spoke up, because, you know, naturally it would be common for me to just blow past stuff like this. So thank you for slowing me down. There's no blanket rule here, however trending.
NSG: I would say, angels are typically easier to work with than a traditional Vc, because it's more of an individual relationship or interaction. Sometimes there's Angle angel groups as well. For example, I think Chloe's Mom's a part of an angel group in Chicago called High Park angels
NSG: and with those larger conglomerate angel groups they tend to be slightly more like a Vc but Vcs are looking for
NSG: have more of a process and system around, how they invest and how they support. And there's a lot more formality to their approach, whereas angels can be all over the map there can be a wide spectrum of experience there. Sometimes they can have a ton of expertise and be really meticulous, and really in the weeds with you and your business. Other times they could be extremely hands off, and they're writing one of many checks to you and others, and they're kind of like
NSG: chilling and hoping one of their bets work.
NSG: Sometimes there's an angel that's only betting on just a few, a small number of companies, which is usually pretty risky. Either because they have a really close relationship or affinity towards the founder of their company, or
NSG: There's some sort of special circumstance
NSG: right? So for me, I guess, like I guess I can now consider myself an angel investor. I just made my 1st one in Bob's company right? So. That was my 1st ever angel investment, which is pretty cool. So I'm I'm 1 of those single, you know, point
NSG: a failure. But I understand, like, basically, when I write that check like that, money's gone, basically. And I'm hoping for the best. But the the issue sometimes with angels is that
NSG: some of them have disproportionate expectations
NSG: about the performance and the likelihood of being successful. So it's really important to make sure that if you're dealing with an angel investor they're either semi sophisticated, or if they're not, you do the work as the founder to make sure that they understand the return profile for early stage startup bets.
NSG: Does that make sense.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: No, exactly. So. I was under the impression that when you are working with like Andrew's, probably there would be like someone like calling every morning. So what happened to my investment, and like.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Like. But yeah, based on your explanation. I think it might be other way around, so they might be much more helpful compared to business at some point.
NSG: It can be. It is largely dependent on who the person is.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Yeah.
NSG: Chris.
Chris Wong: Yeah, I just kind of curious, like, how order do you have any tactics around? Kind of flushing that out like the disproportionate expectation. Investors like questions to ask or things to kind of like approach. Or you know, ways to figure that out. Yeah.
NSG: Hmm, so I would say that it's a relationship.
NSG: It's a it's a it's like a I don't want to say it's a friendship, but it's it's relatively close to that. It feels like that. You end up being extremely strategic and intentional about who you and like. This is a person. It's kind of like like me, a little bit like they're not going to get in the weeds in your business the way we do a tech stars. But it's like the closest version of an angel investors, probably.
NSG: Why, any of you would appreciate someone like me being involved in your business.
NSG: I would say, that was like the closest corollary I could. I could make the connection around as far as figuring out who's who, Chris?
NSG: Ask around an angel investor. They've made more than one already. You gotta talk to their previous investments. You got to talk to the other founders who've taken their money and what it's like to work with them.
NSG: Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: And
Andrew Fernandes: the motivations for each venture versus angels can vary. So venture in general. Their business model is they're expecting the large majority of investments to go to 0.
NSG: I'm gonna show you that, too.
Andrew Fernandes: 100 X, yeah, we're going to be like 100 x 1,000 x, and that's their model. So they're not interested in a company that's worth 10 million. They're interested in a company that's worth 500 million, a billion, 10 billion dollars. We have a friend in New York. He has a small company generating 2 million dollars cash flow. There's only 3 of them head count. He's very happy. His venture backers are not happy with him, and that's understandable for both sides, understandable for him to be happy for them or not.
Andrew Fernandes: For an angel. It could be depending on their personal motivations they could be expecting venture returns, or they could be. I like this person. They're my friend, or I just like their motivation. I want to help them succeed
Andrew Fernandes: or they could have adventure expectations, or it could be like Jake's 1 of Jake's checks. I'm gonna just spin the roll up wheel.
NSG: Yeah, exactly. Thank you. Andrew.
Ankur Toshniwal: Neil, I was curious about I I had never really thought thought about corporate investors as a separate arm.
Ankur Toshniwal: An area that I'm not not familiar with.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Could you speak a little bit more about how frequent that is when.
NSG: Sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: Company to actually consider that as a viable strategy.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah.
NSG: Happy to. I actually had one. So my my intro to San Francisco was actually in partnership with ebay.
NSG: So they've got a corporate arm, and like they're they've got a venture arm. And like a lot of these larger businesses and tech companies have these venture divisions within them, and some of them operate like sophisticated regular Vcs. Others have like slight, like extreme specialization that they're looking for. There isn't a
NSG: significant difference, in my view from traditional Vc. However, a lot of these companies are looking at these investments.
NSG: With 2 lenses, one is a lens of can I get a return? The other lens is is this strategically beneficial for our business? To be in on or betting on or early or ahead of, and it's also re, r, and D recon for them, too. So they're getting lots of looks at lots of potential innovations and disruptions that could happen to their business for free on top of actually having the right to also write a check. Like, I was saying earlier to Vivian during the storyboarding workshop.
NSG: She is ripe, for I think corporate investors, I think, for there are venture divisions within the car industry and auto industry, and maybe adjacent industries that would be relevant for her. I think that would be super powerful, because they're really they would be incentivized, in effect, to make sure that she succeeds and has all the doors open for her strategically to help her business grow. So the like connections like that, I think, are super dope, and well worth considering.
Ankur Toshniwal: 1. 1 of my questions on this is, and and
Ankur Toshniwal: a bit of a concern sometimes is, especially if they see it as like, Hey, like, we want to know if we want to use this
Ankur Toshniwal: to accelerate our business or do use it as an actual product or tool, that the actual company uses. And then, you know.
Ankur Toshniwal: somewhere in like 6 months, the founders decide, hey? Actually, this direction is not the right one. And they, you know, we want to pivot and go a different direction. Does does that really mess like? Does that relationship become kind of a big problem? Then.
NSG: I I don't have reference to that happening. I'm sure it has.
NSG: What I would say ankle is like
NSG: if they're already invested in you. Then there's a reason why they're incentivized on what you succeed, even if they're no longer your customer.
NSG: So that would be my like high level reaction to it. But I'm sure there are examples of for and against
NSG: that that would be worth looking up.
NSG: And and as soon as you start to get closer to considering corporate investors. I'm happy to do the work with you, and we'll talk about it, and we'll find the right people to get perspective from to learn like the truth of the matter as well.
NSG: Cool.
NSG: Alright. Well, yeah. I think there are other ways to fund your business guys. You have any? Have any guesses, any bets.
NSG: any curiosities here? I have a long list.
NSG: not gonna show you all of them at once.
Meg Hall: Worse!
NSG: Customers. I love that there's debt. There's customers. There's, you know, revenue based funding, which is a little tricky. There's government grants which I'm actually a huge fan of, because those are not. If you could get them pitch competitions, I made over 100 k doing pitch competitions back in the day, which was fun. I don't recommend it honestly like I think there's better ways to earn money and make money. But if you're really desperate and you have no other place to go, and you believe in what you're doing, and no one else is giving you any money. Get it?
NSG: That's no longer a thing or shouldn't be for any of you. Yeah, I like this one, too. I like consulting, because if you consult, especially if it's adjacent to what you're doing. That's actually a good way to control your fate and control your destiny and stay alive. So big fan of that if you have the capacity to it to do it. Accelerators, incubators, you guys are here. Hello!
NSG: Frontline cash on hardware subscriptions via 3rd party. This is a little tricky.
NSG: So this one I had to like actually like, literally like, look up and like, Go, okay, wait a second. What are they saying? And I mean.
NSG: there are basically some like obscure ways to like strike deals where you get upfront cash to give up
NSG: some of your assets or or resources, or, you know, capacity in a way. But you have to have a lot of evidence that you have something real, and that's like a whole deep dive that maybe a smile. You and I can like talk about separately. But happy to like kind of go down that path and learn more about it. Factoring receivables family friends, partners, so that one's a little tricky. Definitely danger zone. There. It can be done. I've seen it go very poorly, and I've seen it go fine. But
NSG: be super careful when you get family friends and anyone else involved that is close to you, because
NSG: their their understanding and sophistication around. What this even means is
NSG: usually relatively limited, and things can go South really quickly. So I would, you know, tread very carefully there.
NSG: Chris, sorry.
Chris Wong: Oh, yeah, I was just curious. For the consulting services. This isn't something I've been thinking about on the side. But is the structure like you consult and and you have consulting business within the company? Or is it like separate from the company? And then you invest that money that you made on that consulting? Or is it like you're within the company, and that that money.
NSG: Either one, either one. It depends on the situation. And what kind of consulting you're doing right. I do know examples of founders who did separate consulting engagements like where they're. Let's just say they're a developer, and they're willing to do some part time consulting or dev work on the side to pay their bills and keep them afloat and get the get their cash in. Alternatively, you could potentially do consulting as the company itself. For a business as well, where there's a lot of manual work or prototyping or custom solutions that you build out for a particular client that can be done too.
Chris Wong: Got it, and just a quick follow up on that. Is, is there any like kind of perception of that from investors like further, like investors down the line from Vcs or other angels of like this is okay to do, or just kind of curious, like what their reception is as you do that. Yeah.
NSG: I don't know about later stage, I will say in the early stage.
NSG: stay alive by any means necessary. So if you're scrappy like. The only ding that could happen is if you're unfocused, right? So if you're not betting all on the mission that you're embarking on with your business, and instead, you're kind of enjoying all the cash you're making on the side. So you're not taking your business full time seriously. That could be problematic. But if your business isn't earning enough revenue yet founders take control of their own fate.
NSG: So most of us Vcs have respect for founders that do what they have to do to stay alive.
Chris Wong: Cool thanks.
NSG: Smile.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Yeah. So actually, it's a comment. Probably. So I have been recent recently, like searching for like, when is the best time to move the company to the Us.
NSG: Right.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Especially like. So, of course, some of the potential customers we're asking to have headquartered in the Us. That, apart from that for government grants and spir. So I think there has to be some presence in in the Us.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: And I'm just wondering, like, if there are like us based. Vcs would prefer to have, like their companies, to be also present in the Us.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: If that.
NSG: Yeah, I think that's a preference. There's definitely a preference on that.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Okay.
NSG: For sure.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Especially.
NSG: Amazing!
NSG: Oh, no. Go ahead, Esmel. Sorry.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: I mean, just want to say, like government grants, and also spar would be so much relevant to us, and that requires also to be in the Us. Definitely, so.
NSG: Usually, yeah.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: But I was like curious like if the Vcs would be also preferring to have, like us, based entities.
NSG: Oh, yes, the answer is yes, straightforward Antoine.
Antoine Carriere: Oh, 2 questions. The 1st one is small business loans. Since we're talking about us specific. Is there a reason why it's not listed here, or is it nested in one of these categories?
NSG: It's a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, blue. Number 5.
Antoine Carriere: Government grants.
NSG: Yeah.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, I mean, but it's not. It's not a. It's not a grant, a small business loan.
Ankur Toshniwal: Is it not just debt? Is that not what.
NSG: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That that also counts as debt, too. So we can call a small business on debt.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, yeah, it just it. Okay. So it's it's basically you would put it as debt project. Financing was venture debt.
NSG: Sure.
NSG: Well, venture debt's different. I would say. Debt project financing so like project financing is slightly different than debt in that project. Financing means I'm taking on capital for a particular initiative.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah.
NSG: And.
Antoine Carriere: I mean the the reason why I'm asking about this particular thing.
Antoine Carriere: It is.
Andrew Fernandes: That's that's a.
Antoine Carriere: Pretty significant. And a project when you, when you say that slash project financing, I'm kind of assuming that the project is the collateral. A small business loan. Typically, there's collateralization beyond the company is the collateral or the
Antoine Carriere: that's correct.
Antoine Carriere: the the owner. And so that's the reason why kind of I'm I'm surprised to kind of mess them all together, or at least I'm kind of so.
NSG: It's just a list. Yeah, it's just I. Yes, no, this isn't. I think your sophistication understanding of that is more than what this slide represents.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, yeah, and and I, and I guess so so to to your point. Because I do think this is, this is a really kind of interesting topic and a big topic. And I'm not. I'm not disputing that that. We can't find it on on Chatgpt but I would be interested in having that exact same list.
Antoine Carriere: but with 3 additional columns, one is, how much?
Antoine Carriere: What's the range that you're getting? The second one is kind of what are the requirements? Some sort of requirements, because some things make a ton of sense versus.
Antoine Carriere: For example, if we were to talk about project financing and the requirements are, you need to have a project that is eligible to financing, which means your project needs to have, like some real assets into it, etc. Etc. And the last column would be the cost of capital or the rate you know.
NSG: Sure.
Antoine Carriere: And and I I that I would love to kind of see, see that, because right now.
NSG: Of course.
Antoine Carriere: And I'm being voluntarily pretty critical of that slide deck, because I know you didn't write it. But I would say this list. It feels like a laundry list of hey?
NSG: There's a lot of stuff to go look into here like that's the purpose of this slide isn't to go. Here's how all of this works. The purpose of this deck and talk is actually talk about venture.
NSG: But it's letting you know there are many other ways to consider that require more research in depth for you to understand and comprehend. So I'm almost treating this like a menu for you to go explore what these categories are about. But Antoine, it sounds like, you know, a good amount about this, which is awesome.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah. And I, I do. I do think it's a real topic like is venture the right way. And are there other ways? Yes, there are lots of other ways now, a bunch of these things have like. And I again, I don't want to jump the gun, because I I would love to see that whole, that whole presentation but I do. I do think it's a. It's a real topic very interesting. There's lots of interesting things to do
Antoine Carriere: and and but but but that at at that level it's not very helpful. Other than to say, Yeah, there's lots of other ways. Yeah, sure.
NSG: I think it is helpful. I think it's helpful, because there's probably bullets here that people weren't thinking about that they can consider now.
NSG: But I appreciate and respect your critique of the list as well, meaning like. It requires a lot more nuance to fully comprehend.
Ankur Toshniwal: And so we're sorry to be clear. Venture debt is not venture capital, right? So those are 2 separate things, or is that I am just confused by that.
NSG: Correct. Yeah, it's it's a.
Ankur Toshniwal: Thing, right.
NSG: It's like a loan with a twist which includes like warrants.
NSG: So usually there's like a little bit more going on there than what would be typical. It's definitely less dilutive than equity. But it's also more nuanced. So yeah, there's there's more there sounds like Chris might be familiar with it.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I I was just wanted to confirm that. Then, when, if this was a list and it had venture capital on it, it would say, venture capital! That would that be the term that's like, if they
Ankur Toshniwal: correct.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, and and venture that just since we're where I didn't do it because it that is, Sv. Does quite. There's very little venture that there's there's Sv. That does venture that
Antoine Carriere: there's a few kind of funds that are doing venture debt. It is very. It is highly developed in Silicon valley compared to the rest of the of the of the country, because you need a pretty mature venture ecosystem to be able to do, venture debt
Antoine Carriere: and and so so that's kind of the again, I I do think it's a again, and maybe that's not the the right place to have that discussion. But there's there's a there's a whole lot now venture that, I would say, for all of us is fairly kind of
Antoine Carriere: irrelevant, because we are not in need of sufficient capital for it to make sense.
NSG: It's out of reach. Yeah, it's out of reach.
NSG: But I don't know. Maybe optifab, you know, maybe optifab needs, you know, gets gets maybe things start to take off.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah. And and I, I think, optifab I. If I were again, maybe we should look at it or have kind of things where there's project financing where there's assets you, can you? You can probably finance to purchase of these assets if they have, like a some sort of a resale value. And so or or
Antoine Carriere: yeah, I I kind of again don't don't want to derail the con. The conversation.
NSG: No, I mean how much
NSG: what you've done is you've effectively nominated yourself to go deeper on, you know, financing businesses and talking through it as a my supporter.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, no. I'm yeah.
NSG: I'm.
Antoine Carriere: I'm happy. I'm happy to do that. I would. If the the deck is available, I will. The 1st thing again.
NSG: This is this is your deck.
Antoine Carriere: I can. I can reorganize so that there's everything that is revenue focused on one category because there's a lot of things like like there's lots of things that is revenue focused, how to finance your revenue. There's other things that are asset based, focused, etcetera, and that that at the very least it will make it a little bit more.
NSG: Yes.
Antoine Carriere: Less of a laundry list. It will remain a laundry list.
NSG: Alright. And then, as far as learning how Vcs operate, I'll go into it a little bit here with some slides, but the the best
NSG: existing guide that I know of is actually a book written by our co-founders at Techsars. It's called Venture Deals. Has anyone read Venture deals
NSG: by David Cohen and Bradfeld. It's a really really great book. It will illuminate how this works. There's even a course that's free for all techstars, founders. I think there's a unique proprietary course. That's the only that's exclusive to techstars, alumni and their current founders that you can actually take. So if you really want to get into like adventure, like nuances, which will put you in a advantage. Position. Because the whole, I think, value prop of the book is to know more than what your investors know when you're in the room with them.
NSG: So that's I think, the value prop of that book, and I highly recommend it. So you guys, at this point kind of understand what venture is? The whole like name of our game is, we're making early, risky bets that usually don't work out, but when they work out they work out really well.
NSG: So that is the game. The name of the game.
NSG: Cool. Yeah. Chloe just mentioned in the chat. The next venture deals course, is this summer
NSG: so highly variable. And what I'm gonna talk about here isn't true for every Vc. This is more of a general, directionally correct kind of sentiment about it.
NSG: You all are relatively familiar with the landscape, and how frequently it can change or speaks and valleys. And there's hey days, and there's booms and bus, just like with the traditional market. I gotta say in like 2021, when I was
NSG: doing like venture work, both raising a fund, deploying early stage capital through it and doing tech stars as well. It was pretty wild man. I had people with hope and a dream telling me that they were at 8 million dollar, you know valuation. And I'm like you don't even have anything yet. What are you talking about? But that's just what people thought they could do. So it was a. It's a fascinating time when things kind of go up and down here, and it's worth paying attention to this to know where things stand and what the overall trends might be. I tend to ignore it.
NSG: To be frank, because I have the privilege of focusing on.
NSG: you know, running a program where I can influence the success of the companies more. So. So I'm playing less of a numbers game and more of a quality game with the people. I bet on but as far as the landscape itself being in California.
NSG: It's it's pretty insane man like you all are in the the most popular state on earth, the most popular place on earth
NSG: to be a startup founder and to get investment and to be an investor.
NSG: So
NSG: that's kind of how that goes. But as far as how the fund works, we're raising money from institutionals, from government pension funds, corporations, a lot of high net worth individuals. Insurance companies, lots lots more. So the fundraising for venture is not glorious. I've done it myself. And
NSG: yeah, it's it's it's definitely, slightly more enjoyable than being a founder and fundraising. But not that much.
NSG: because you. You know your your masters have masters is basically the point. So as far as like how the structure works is, those are the big, bad lps.
NSG: We're the, you know. Vcs, our job is to actually go get them the bread, and we get a little piece of the bread that we get for them and a lot of the times. I find founders don't quite understand the structure and how it works. And they treat the Vcs. Making the decisions as if they're like.
NSG: you know the the gods of the system, and really what they the little do they know there's gods, there's demi gods, and then there's gods. And that's kind of what happens here, and we have to answer to them. So most of the years I've had to go to the techstars. Lp, meeting, and I've had to speak on stage and talk about certain things or talk about you guys or our accelerator program, or you know other aspects of what it's like to be, you know, techstars, and what we're doing with all of these investors. Money. What's really cool, though.
NSG: is that some of the lps.
NSG: Our founders.
NSG: techstars, founders, and I know some of them like. Personally, you know, they are my friends, so it's cool to see some of them in the room, too, because once they've had their success, once they've had their exit, they go back down and they go, hey, I'm gonna contribute to techstars. Now, because techstars help me succeed. I want to be an Lp of techstars now, so I would love for that to be the case for some of you and to meet you guys and one of those Lp meetings. Someday I've even had founders come with me and join me on stage to talk about their journey and their fundraising and stuff like that which has been great
NSG: as far as the Vc. Firm itself. There are some that are very small, and don't have any or any of these roles except for a Gp. Some of them have all of these roles, and are really complex and larger. In in San Francisco in particular, you're gonna see way, more people that have different, you know, a different set of team members and roles. I looked at this list. I have been
NSG: everything on this list, except for I think, a partner, principal director.
NSG: I think I've had every other role.
NSG: May. No, no, no, not operating partner and partner, I haven't had. But I've been a venture partner, associate analyst in Eir an Lp. And an Md, so
NSG: that's that's what I've done, but that's what they all mean.
NSG: Sometimes they mean different things for different firms. So you you'll have to figure that out with, based on who you're talking to.
NSG: I, personally really enjoyed being the analyst in the 1st line of defense. That was pretty fun, because you're out there like trying to make a name for yourself, trying to learn a lot, trying to help founders trying to become their friend. And it's a really cool fun experience being a venture partner, was probably the toughest job. So Mert and I did that together, for Troy at math ventures for his venture firm.
NSG: and that was like your toe was like kind of half in
NSG: the process and then half out. And I I actually didn't. I struggled with that position for a while because
NSG: you wanted to say yes to more deals than you could, and you had no power to actually like. Get the deals over the line you just had to ask if they would do it.
NSG: Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah. So as a principal or a director, are you doing due diligence? But like by yourself? Or how does that work.
NSG: You're leading it. Sometimes you're leading the due diligence.
Anthony De Silva: You're asking like what to look for or like.
NSG: Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's different formulas for different firms. But like, you tend to lead the the diligence on things to get deals over the line, and then you're taking it to the Gp.
Anthony De Silva: Oh.
Anthony De Silva: and do you have to like pitch like? So the analyst needs to pitch to the associate, and so on. Is is that the cycle or.
NSG: Oh, it's sometimes so that that's actually more rare. So like the analyst is usually 1st line of defense is what I would call it right? So it's not as hierarchical as this might seem, whereas, like there's usually like one or 2 people involved in any one deal
NSG: right, one or 2 at varying level and involved in any one deal, and then other people get more into it when you go deeper and due diligence.
NSG: and then, when the deal is getting close to getting through the line. You end up taking it to an IC investment committee not dissimilar from how you guys got invested in
NSG: encore.
Ankur Toshniwal: Do Vcs get high on their own supply? Do our our
Ankur Toshniwal: And managing directors or general partners? Is there ever a requirement that they are direct lps in the.
NSG: Yes.
Ankur Toshniwal: Itself. And yeah, I was just curious about that.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Make.
Ankur Toshniwal: I had to do that.
Ankur Toshniwal: There's a formal commitment in most cases. And is it okay? So there is. And which
Ankur Toshniwal: role does that start at? Is it a limited.
NSG: It's usually it's usually the Gp.
NSG: so the Gp is usually expected to be an Lp, or it's highly suggested that they are
NSG: so that they're in it with you. So it's not just the Gp benefiting on their end, but they actually understand the the implications of their actual returns to the Lps themselves. So, for example, the Rising Stars Fund that I helped raise for techstars, it's just under an 8 million dollars fund. I had to also participate as an lp.
NSG: so.
Ankur Toshniwal: Then this is, and it says something we can generally expect
Ankur Toshniwal: across Vcs. Or is that unique? Like, you know, if we're talking to a partner.
Ankur Toshniwal: What I what I mean is like, you know, if we ask them about like you know, how? How are the returns on the company? How do you view like is the way that they invest also an indication of how Dvc invests, I guess because are they in in alignment? I guess you know that makes sense.
NSG: That's a great question. So in my experience I don't know the full answer to your question.
NSG: I'm sure I could find out really quickly. However.
NSG: in my, with my experience with it.
NSG: we had an lp, that basically said, we need you to do this
NSG: like this is a condition of our commitment.
NSG: So I was like, All right, we'll do it.
NSG: So, Antoine.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah. The the one thing I wanted to also highlight is the
Antoine Carriere: there's so much variability be across firms that it's kind of the the key thing to me is the Gp. Is the only one that you can say for sure can make a decision is kind of going to make a decision
Antoine Carriere: everybody else. They're probably going to have to convince people, and even a Gp. In some firms is not going to be able to make a decision on on their own. They're going to have to correct
Antoine Carriere: so there's lots of differences by by Vc. Firms. Also kind of the venture partner. The advantage of the venture partner is they're they're a scout. They're kind of a scout So, finding deals bringing some deal flow. You have a bunch of people who are venture partners
Antoine Carriere: because they used to be Gp. They had terrible results, and they were demoted to venture partner, which is kind of a nice way to keep them in the in the group.
Antoine Carriere: And so there's also kind of that piece when you're a venture, partner, but that you used to be a Gp. Likely you're on your way out, etcetera. And so so that's those are my takeaways from these these things is, partner doesn't mean shit. Gp is the only real partner and and there's the the most people are going to be kind of.
Antoine Carriere: There's a there's kind of the difference between the people who are kind of in in charge of deal sourcing. So a venture partner typically is is doing deal sourcing and and people who are kind of gravitating around. And an analyst also is doing some desourcing, etc, and other people who are who are just kind of
Antoine Carriere: maybe important, but not really involved in the in the core of the of the the deal. Sourcing process.
NSG: I think the most important thing about we just said Antoine, is that it can vary
NSG: because I I hear you on like the venture partner, not meaning shit, but at the same time that depends on the firm. There are plenty of firms that don't have analysts or associates at all only have venture partners, and then, like a Gp.
Antoine Carriere: Exactly. Yeah, no. No.
NSG: It all depends. Yeah. So I,
NSG: any one title here and go. This is what this means, because you need to talk to the firm about who's doing? What, how? What is your investment process? Who has control and influence like? Make sure you understand it for each firm, because it could be very different.
Antoine Carriere: Thank thank you. Thank you for highlighting that I was. I was taking venture partner as a as a kind of a.
NSG: I understand.
Antoine Carriere: Highlight. But thank you for.
NSG: No, I was just taking it personally, because I've been a venture partner before, and I'm like, I don't suck, you know.
Antoine Carriere: No, no, but that's- that's.
NSG: I'm just messing with you, man. I'm just.
Antoine Carriere: The reason why I was using bitch about the.
NSG: Oh, yeah, I know.
Antoine Carriere: I can. I can! I can! I can tickle Dill.
NSG: Succeeded. You did it alright. Well done! Alright! This is fun. Now I'm talking shop with you guys. This is like the easiest talk I have to do, because this is stuff I do. Alright Vc mechanics
NSG: 3 to 5 years is usually the life cycle of when we're investing the fund itself is a 10 year fund. But our job is to deploy the capital within the 1st 3 to 5 years. So that's basically the the basic name of the game it can vary. There can be different variations of this, but that is almost always the case like this little formula here.
NSG: there's a usually a follow on reserve up to like 50. Typically like the fund I raise is a 50% follow on reserve meaning like, we're keeping half the capital that we got committed from the lps to double down on the big winners. Because that's how you can really like juice up your returns. Is, you deploy some of the capital across the number of investments you're gonna make. Whoever ends up moving forward, you have additional capital to double down on those investments in subsequent rounds.
Ankur Toshniwal: What is the term that you called it?
NSG: Follow on, follow on so. And that's a that's reserved beforehand. Or is that
NSG: correct? The follow on reserve? Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: There's a follow on reserve that's determined. It's a part of baked into the the.
NSG: You're raising the capital. Yes.
Ankur Toshniwal: I see, I see. So you're telling your lps that we're gonna have this and then
Ankur Toshniwal: that. Then I my guess is, I guess, like at 5 years. You're gonna then reinvest that, or like at the after. I see, I see.
NSG: Case in point, like I have one company right now that I invested in through the Rising Stars Fund, that I'm seriously considering a follow on investment for
NSG: from our reserves.
NSG: So yeah. And then the other thing that's interesting is that like, while you're deploying fund one say, it's your 1st fund you're actively raising for Fund 2, probably after your 1st year or 2 of being in market, which is a super tricky thing to do. But basically, in order to like there's fund one fund, 2, fund 3, like they usually the way venture firms stay alive is they're continuously fundraising.
NSG: So this is the other interesting, like empathy thing. I think, for founders that you may not understand that the Vcs. That you're raising capital from are kind of in your shoes as well, because they're the ones out there actually trying to raise capital themselves from lps at the same time.
NSG: So
NSG: yeah, there's that as far as how Vcs make money. Andrew helped t this part up a little bit. But we have like.
Ankur Toshniwal: Sorry I want.
NSG: Go ahead and.
Ankur Toshniwal: Quick, double double click here.
Ankur Toshniwal: this is a small strategic thing. But does this mean that if, like, you're getting close to the end of a 3 to 5 year span of fund of of when the fund has been active or was raised like
Ankur Toshniwal: Vcs. Are a little bit more desperate to like allocate the capital because they're trying to like close the fund.
Ankur Toshniwal: Or is that not true? Is it like pretty consistent throughout, like.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, because it. You're saying you're kind of saying that in this it says, like extensions are allowed, but generally limited meaning like they need to get. They have to use the money right? They have to deploy the capital, which
Ankur Toshniwal: I don't really know. Like, is it like consistent across the whole 3 to 5 years, or do we see some kind of like? Oh, shit! We need to. You deploy this capital in like year 4 or year 5. I don't know if that's a good thing at all.
NSG: Chloe. How do I pause the recording?
NSG: And like raises Chris, yeah, thanks, Chloe for re-recording. It's usually they. They announce it when they close the fund, like most venture firms are saying, hey, we closed the 50 million dollar fund. And so you should be able to give that. Yeah, that should be public. Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, this is not a Vc mechanics question. But you know, we were putting together the list of investors. And so we were doing some research on, like similar companies as to ours, or in this in in the same space.
Anthony De Silva: Thoughts on like reaching out to investors who have invested in those companies.
NSG: Things that are relevant to you or.
Anthony De Silva: Comp. Like, I guess, competitors in the same space, you know.
NSG: I I think it's worth the conversation. I think you should be mindful to only share what you're comfortable sharing.
NSG: and you should also, in the 1st interaction with them, check for confidentiality and conflict of interest.
Anthony De Silva: Oh!
NSG: So the way it works on our end as Vcs is, if we have
NSG: a founder who reaches out with a business that could potentially be
NSG: be competitive with an existing Portfolio company.
NSG: We check with that Portfolio company first, st
NSG: before we take that com meeting or conversation, or have a second or follow on.
NSG: That's the right way to do it.
NSG: I don't have evidence of this, but I have heard stories of people saying
NSG: that some Vcs reach out to them
NSG: as a way to like basically spy on the competition of their existing investments.
NSG: I haven't seen that I have no evidence of that. I've heard about that something for you to look into definitely do your due diligence on the investors and their ethics. But it's definitely not something that I've seen become a problem, but is something I've heard about. And I it's not unreasonable to think that that could happen.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, yeah, that. That's that's what we were worried about, too, like reaching out of the same investors. Can they even invest in us if they have a competitor, or or.
NSG: It depends. Maybe like that, that's actually not crazy. So, for example, I'll give you an example. Techstars, techstars invest in competing companies all the time.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah.
NSG: Think about how many companies. We're almost at 5,000 companies in our portfolio lifetime. So like, naturally, there's going to be directly competitive companies within there, and we, even even within one Md. May invest in more than one company within a space.
NSG: But it is a matter of reputation, like Antoine said before, so your reputation is not going to ever be erased. So you have to be really mindful of whether founders can trust you.
NSG: Cool.
NSG: This is awesome. You guys are like, you guys are making my day with this. I didn't realize it was. Gonna be this much fun to talk about this stuff? So as far as how we make money. We talked about this a little bit but
NSG: it's it's actually it might shock you.
NSG: And how little money Vcs actually have.
NSG: like, we're not rolling in cash. It's actually kind of like like the budgets are tight, not only for techstars in our program, but it's also tight. For like a traditional Vc.
NSG: like we're, we're we're taking economy flights like we're, you know, we're we're. We're scrappy where it's it's not some lavish endeavor for most firms and funds. There are some that are obviously the most successful that have additional perks and may work and function more like your traditional top tier consulting and banking firms and whatnot. But that's few and far between, if at all, for venture
NSG: as far as what it looks like. Andrew, this is where I'm invoking your perspective, because I know you weighed in on this earlier. This is kind of what a return profile looks like for Vcs, which is why it's a little icky to me, because, on one hand, I want all of you to succeed. But, on the other hand, the the fact of the matter is is the numbers basically say, like
NSG: one or 2 of you is gonna make the whole fund
NSG: like there's 1 or 2 great outcomes that basically make the fund. There's a few decent, you know, singles doubles, maybe some triples and there's a whole bunch of failures and non performers.
NSG: And this is just the fact of life, of of the venture world. It is in direct conflict sometimes with my own
NSG: philosophy of how I like to help founders succeed, and I will say that I have worked at venture funds that I'm proud of, because there have been moments where we could almost force a company down the path of trying to get us a home run.
NSG: but they had a pretty good exit available to them.
NSG: The home run was less likely than the available pretty good exit.
NSG: and consistently from the funds I've worked at.
NSG: namely, techstars and working with Troy.
NSG: The choice that these firms make techstars, and Troy
NSG: is usually to the benefit of the founder, and what the founder wants first, st not necessarily what is best for our returns as a as an investor. So I'm proud to say that and share that, because that's something I've actually seen actively happen multiple times. It is not true for every venture firm, and you can only find that out by talking to founders who've had exit outcomes and can tell you those stories.
NSG: Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah. One comment, one question to Neil's point, are you due diligence is.
Andrew Fernandes: what type of Vc fund you're working with, whether it's like Neil, and techstars who tend to be founder friendly versus those who. You're just a statistic for them. They don't give a shit. They know that a handful of companies are going to drive outside returns. If they don't think you're it, they're not going to go to bat for you. They're not going to waste their time on you, and they're asking.
Andrew Fernandes: that's 1. And then the question is, jumping back to the last slide, what happens at the end of funds? I don't want to go too deep into this, because it's not relevant to all of us right now. But at the end of a fund, when
Andrew Fernandes: the fund needs to be liquidated. Basically to return capital to investors. Does that force second market like private to happen? What happens? Does it like roll over into GPS or roll into the next fund. What happens with non-exited holdings.
NSG: So the funds is a 10 year. It's a 10 year fund.
NSG: So I should know this. I don't know what happens after the 10 years you might be able to extend the life of the fund. If there's a reason to maintain holdings. I would need to look up what happens with the holdings post the 10 year mark.
Andrew Fernandes: Okay.
NSG: But I'm sure that's a simple search to pull up and like. Figure out what are some of the typical like 10 year like inclusion? Maybe Antoine knows.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, to your point. It's it's gonna be depends on what you do with your. So the the sorry I was raising my hand for something else just on the illustrative figure before it. Just it's important to keep in mind that this is illustrative. For 3 x fund. You have a bunch of phones
Antoine Carriere: that have, like 80% of the companies that have gone bankrupt. And and here I would say, another point that I would make is
Antoine Carriere: the the.
Antoine Carriere: It's the yellow line that is doing everything that is, that is dragging all the return at the end of the day you could have, like the 25% that fail, it could be like 50%, 60% that failed. If you have in the yellow line a really kind of explosive exit it's or it makes up for the, for the.
Antoine Carriere: for the total return of the fund. So the dispersion of the return is really skewed towards the best performers, and the last point I wanted to make is for the low performers that are returning 1.1. It's typically reporting, returning some money for for the Vc. And a lot less
Antoine Carriere: for the investor, except if they've taken some money out at some point, because you have lots of of the returns that are the one X, which means the liquidation preference has been kind of triggered, most likely.
Antoine Carriere: which probably means that the founders haven't kind of gotten much, if any, if any, kind of return. So it's kind of.
NSG: Yeah.
Antoine Carriere: The returns for the Comp.
Antoine Carriere: The yellow, the the blue is really one where there's there's a stronger symmetry between the performance of the Fund, and the performance of the founder.
NSG: Correct, and then also, just to be clear
NSG: as far as my investment in all of you, I'm with you. So I eat when you eat, which is usually last. All the other investors and people in your captive are going to eat before we do.
NSG: That's our good old founder, common stock.
Antoine Carriere: Yes. Yeah.
NSG: So fund overview example, I'll let you guys dig into this and ask me questions, because there's a little bit more content. I want to make sure we cover but basic fund math here you could kind of assess and just understand that how the math works roughly and this is larger checks being written. So this looks like more of like a series, a type of fund.
NSG: But the whole notion is like a 4 year initial investment period. Typical range is 3 to 5. Here's what that would look like, as far as playing it out with the distribution of companies and investments made. If it's 20 companies. You know, deploying like 5 million each. This is kind of what that looks like. This is oversimplified. Obviously, it's not. It's almost never this clean but it's good for the sake of just understanding the the high level math
NSG: of how fun kind of translates into these returns and outcomes, and what the math transforms into. But just like Antoine just said. As you can see.
NSG: dramatic outcome
NSG: makes the fund. So it's 1, 2, or 3 home runs that end up doing all of the work as far as the ventures concerned. That being said.
NSG: those 7 companies in the pretty good exit, and the 5 companies in the low performing
NSG: those are potentially positive outcomes.
NSG: Those aren't the worst thing in the world, and that's not like
NSG: all of those are are rare. The vast majority of companies in general are in the far left category here.
NSG: So just recognize that. And like, it's a proud moment. Even if you become a low performer to a Vc. But you end up having a positive exit as a founder. For yourself.
NSG: So yeah. We talked about the home runs, and we're looking like there's a reason why, like I don't know. Do you guys remember the last question I asked you in our final conversation before I invest.
NSG: Does anybody remember what I asked?
NSG: It's a billion dollar question.
Andrew Fernandes: I know. Hey, guys, top of my head.
NSG: It's I was.
Antoine Carriere: There are no.
NSG: Walk me through. I was like, what's the bill? What's the path?
NSG: Show me the path. I didn't always ask that. I actually learned that from David Cohen. When I raised the the fund with him, he was like, hey, look! Just if there's 1 thing that you do, make sure that you have alignment with the founders that
NSG: they are trying to build a billion dollar business, because if they're not.
NSG: it's probably doesn't make sense for us to like work with them or invest in them.
NSG: Now you have to tell me what I want to hear when I ask you that question, of course, but I at least need to believe it's possible to get there, even if it's not something that you ultimately want to do.
NSG: And you may have to get someone else to do it, or you may unlock a certain phase or stage of progress, and then you may have someone else take it on to take it the distance, or if you want my backing and support to go, you know what? It's not gonna go the distance. But I do want to get a good exit. Now come, and I need your help, Neil. I'm like, okay, let's change our strategy. I'm okay with those things. I know plenty of investors in my brethren who don't feel that way, and basically actively disregard companies that aren't trying to get 1 billion dollar outcome.
NSG: Whether that's good or bad is I don't know up to you to decide as a founder, but, like there, many investors are strongly opinionated, and understand the value of their time, and only want to spend time with the companies they think are going to go that distance, because otherwise they don't think they're going to have a job.
NSG: Piush.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): Yeah, I I second that completely. So I had a call with an investor last last week.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): and towards the end of the call I asked them, they said, Okay, do you have any questions for us? I asked them, what are you looking for
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): in in a company like us, where, you know there's no revenue we are trying to find. Pmf.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): So they just answered in a 1 line statement. They said, we are trying to see whether there's a path to a billion dollar. And if there's not a clear path, is there a way that these founders can create a path to a billion dollar. And that basically means 100 billion dollar revenue over the next next few years. So.
NSG: Exactly.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): Yeah.
NSG: That. That is how they talk, I promise you. Look on the back end when I'm in those meetings and calls. That's what I hear what piece is summarize is is what I hear consistently.
NSG: Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Do you have liquidation preference covered in a later slide? Or should I ask now.
NSG: We. We can talk about it. I think it does come up a little bit more. But what's your question?
Andrew Fernandes: So my understanding is that liquidation preference of one X for investors is typical until gross later growth stage of series C, and on should that be a red flag? If if any investor tries to come with liquidation, preference greater than one x.
NSG: Yeah, yeah, it is. And and we should talk about that. There could be some issues there. That could be really, really tricky and really screw you down the line.
NSG: I I'll see if I don't cover by the end of this. Call me out and remind me, Andrew.
NSG: Okay. So just to blaze through a little bit, guys, because we're I love how nerdy we're getting. But I think, what do I have to go like 20min.
NSG: Yeah, 20min. Okay, alright. So I'll get through as much as I can, and then we'll jump back to any slides that are are most important to go deep on.
NSG: So
NSG: I do hear a lot of founders, a lot of my founders. Maybe this is my problem. Who talk about runway. I only have 4 months left. I need venture, and I'm like
NSG: that is not an effective narrative. That is not what we want to hear as investors that will not get you into most doors or get any checks written for you.
NSG: They don't want to just give you more time.
NSG: especially coming out of techstars. They want to know that you have a plan to deploy their capital, to get yourself to the next race into the next round, and is a there's a there's a model, your financial model. There's a strategy. There's something exciting. There's something demonstrable, pitable. There's evidence. There's a plan there that makes sense that I know you're going to put my money to work effectively.
NSG: And I do know there are examples of very clever founders that come up with those narratives, even if they're not real.
NSG: I would like to actively advise you against from doing that.
NSG: because I think most of those don't work out.
NSG: And then those founders end up having to like
NSG: reposition their name and reputation and likeness, to raise another round or build another company later.
NSG: So don't be the type that swindles investors into thinking you have something that you don't be honest, be real. Be practical and be scrappy about staying alive and surviving.
NSG: yeah, exactly what Andrew just said in the chat raise when customers demand with with customer demand, not your bank balance forces you to.
NSG: So yeah, and the target amount should be reasonable relative to your current status. Like David said, the most common mistake founders make is the over. Ask.
NSG: like, you're trying to raise more money than you need, or you're not under promising and over delivering meaning. I'm gonna you know. Maybe you in your model, you're like 1.5 million is gonna make our business great
NSG: structure 1 million dollar round be open over, subscribing to 1.5.
NSG: Right? So that's that kind of like thinking. That that is helpful usually so
NSG: as far as the series, a the seed and the pre seed. I've got 3 slides kind of stacked up with this understanding the different metrics at different stages that are important. Series a. We're slightly, you know, ahead of the curve, for where most of you all are at all of you, I think. But we're looking at arr we're looking at revenue growth rate. We're looking at net revenue retention, gross margin.
NSG: your cact Ltv. Ratio at least 3 to 3 to one for that. There's this thing called the magic number, or Sales Efficiency metric. And then there's a churn which becomes a big deal and a sales velocity. There's a whole long list of them that I can like. Pull up for you guys that matter at the series, a stage. But it's basically mathematical
NSG: at this level, like we're we're look. They're literally running numbers in in analysis in ways that are very technical. And and driven by your model and your metrics more than it would be at other stages. And it's fairly intense. The most recent example I have of this is probably nutrisense, and seeing Dan and Alex kind of go through that journey.
NSG: you know, for their business. The seed. This is where it's sort of in the middle ground there, where, depending on the type of company and the progress of the company. The traction will matter the user growth. You know, sometimes it's earlier stage in that, especially in San Francisco, where you could talk about
NSG: pre-orders. And, Lois, maybe you can get away with that. I'm a huge like anti Loi guy, but I can't deny that it's something that actually people do consider and take seriously depending on the weight of the terms within it. Nps can help here.
NSG: You know your Tam Samsung can matter at the seed stage. This is, I think, where you guys kind of many of you are and should be actively considering you know how to put yourself in the right position to be viable for a seed investment usually within the 1st year or 2 post techstars. Many of my companies are actively either considering seed rounds or have already raised them.
NSG: Retention rates matter a lot. Qualitative feedback can be really meaningful here, because you don't have enough quant yet, and early signals of Pmf. Which I know. You just talked about a little bit too. But you also want to see some organic traction as well. You want to demonstrate that it's not just artificially, injected traction
NSG: precede. You guys kind of know this pretty well. It's basically more of what I just said, but probably just slightly less developed pilot programs. Mvps Lois again. Making sure that the team is like super strong. This is where the team matters the most when it comes to these early bets. And as you guys can imagine, like, I'm gonna look back one day hopefully, you guys make me successful. But like the fact that I was a pre-seed investor means that I'm the wildest of wild
NSG: betters, you know, and and some of you hopefully will be, too. But like this is the scariest part of the business guys.
NSG: No evidence that there's anything there, and you just gotta take a swing and hope that you made the right bet on the right people.
NSG: Yeah, it's it's it's it. I don't know if it's I. I hope it's skill, but as of right now, it's probably luck.
NSG: It'll it'll make sense in hindsight cause you guys are gonna prove me right. I know it.
NSG: At least one of you. But yeah, raising capital is all about value creation. And you guys know this. So the whole notion here is making sure that you have a plan for what you're going to do over time. Most Vcs aren't interested in you just doing a 1 and done.
NSG: They don't want to see you saying, Oh, yeah, this is all the money I'll ever need. And I'm gonna build my business as I'm gonna build it. They want to see that you have a plan to raise your subsequent rounds, because, as you grow your business, there's exponential growth that requires additional capital to continue to grow. Does anybody want to guess why? It's important
NSG: for us to see your plan to raise additional capital.
Andrew Fernandes: Because you want to show.
Andrew Fernandes: Mark up their portfolio.
NSG: Markups all day long. I'm trying to see my numbers because I'm trying to raise my fund, too.
NSG: If I'm gonna raise no Fund 2. I got to show that I got good investments in Fund one, and if I don't have any markups or any evidence that my investments are growing and doing well. How am I going to do that
NSG: now? That is changing a little bit right now? There are. There is a slight downtick in
NSG: the pace and the number of rounds that are being raised by companies right now so slight shift, but probably not fundamental or significant, and it'll probably bounce back to the pattern that already exists. Maybe that's different with AI. I don't know.
NSG: It'll be fun to find out. And you guys are right at the tip of the sphere of proving that.
NSG: So we'll see what happens.
NSG: Meg, you were. Gonna say something.
Meg Hall: Oh, I was just saying so that you can show a return. I was answering your question.
NSG: You got it? Yep, you're you're right.
NSG: So a few key concepts we talked about dilution. So really important for your pro forma cap table. This is where we talked about some of the gotchas with dilution. I think, Andrew, you were asking a little bit about this. So I think it's really important to make sure that you're not giving away more of your company for the same post money, evaluation targets, because
NSG: that, could he have a huge impact on future rounds? So this is a little tricky and important to be mindful of. You know, the the whole notion here is that if you oversubscribe and don't have a clear target for your round size. This could be
NSG: like this. Math could become very problematic very quickly. So it's really important to make sure that you've thought through and done the math to see what the implications are. And usually, if there's ever a question on the post money front, a Pre. Money is recommended. The reason that this hidden dilution can happen is because
NSG: multiple post money saves may not make it obvious in the beginning that it could basically dilute the founder and and early investors. But if you play it out
NSG: that that's happened before. I've seen examples of this where it's not pretty, and the founders are very confused as to the outcome because they didn't do their homework upfront to figure out what that looks like. So that's my.
Ankur Toshniwal: Just so.
NSG: Back to you guys to be mindful of that. Oh, go ahead, Ankur.
Ankur Toshniwal: Just just out of curiosity, like, what's what's the percentage? That's a red flag.
Ankur Toshniwal: And and what's not? I know every company is gonna be different. But like.
Ankur Toshniwal: What if you don't mind sharing? Is it like
Ankur Toshniwal: founders expected 5% or 2% or point 1%? And then they realized it was 10%. Or it's 20%. Or like.
Ankur Toshniwal: yeah, like, how how big are the discrepancies that you've seen.
NSG: I'll have to pull up some cases and examples for you. The 1st number came to my head was 20%. But cause, that's the from the investor standpoint. There's usually an order ownership target of 10 to 20 but as far as the dilution outcomes, I'll I'll I'll let's put a PIN in that, and I'll follow up afterwards, maybe with something more.
NSG: I don't have it off the top of my head, but there is important math to be done here, and I think the whole point of me putting this up right now is just to say, like, Make sure you've maintained your pro forma cap table, and you understand the math and the the played out scenarios. I'm not an expert in it myself, but
NSG: we'll get you the expertise, or I'll talk it through with you and make sure it makes sense.
NSG: The founders that don't do this regret it.
NSG: 100% of the time.
NSG: It's easy to like. Ignore this type of math, because either it's uncomfortable or you got a business to run. You got other priorities. It is a boneheaded mistake
NSG: to not have played this out and understand it
NSG: is your company. You're putting your whole life into this. You better understand what it could mean if you take capital. And what happens, you know, with the exit outcomes that could be, you know, modeled out for you.
NSG: And it it would be really disappointing to me, too, because, like, I want y'all to make as much money as possible with your outcomes.
NSG: So like, put me to work to make sure that we're defending your business properly, and we understand what deals you're signing up for.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah for the for the for the post money safe. Gotcha. That's the one that I was more
Ankur Toshniwal: curious about in this particular case like, you know. Beware of excessive over subscription. What do you? What is like?
Ankur Toshniwal: That's, I'm just curious, like, you know what is a at least.
Ankur Toshniwal: if you, if you, if some some companies here have taken some investment before some have taken 0 right?
Ankur Toshniwal: if that is a part of the game. Now of taking a post money safe like what do you? What do you be? What would you be like? Hey? That's
Ankur Toshniwal: like? Would you have pause of like, a company taking 5%, 10% or or giving up 5, 10% dilution and post money safe coming out of techstars or or or is there a target.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Between techstars plus a non seed round investment that you think is like a good target to have.
NSG: Yeah. So most like, standard post money safes are like structured to be non dilutable by future safe rounds.
NSG: That being said the Pre. Money safe is a safer bet. To protect against that. If there's ever like going to be any issue there.
NSG: yeah, I I mean, this is something that I know the math of, but not having directly experience these scenarios.
NSG: So what I'll say is like for your situation
NSG: individually like I'll like. I'll play this out with you to make sure it makes sense. But like
NSG: I think the the thing that I know is that this sometimes seems straightforward to people.
NSG: but when they haven't done the math it could lead to cumulative dilution in a way that shocks you.
NSG: So I'll give you an example just like rough, rough, like
NSG: like rule of thumb. If you're raising more than a million dollars, we highly recommend a price round.
NSG: because, like, if you're under, if you're raising under a million like, there's, there's a good argument for the safes and convertible notes. But the the price round is gonna probably be more meaningful around that mark.
NSG: More to think about. But like
NSG: again, like this is like a big, important, like meaty subject that
NSG: requires, like deeper, you know, nuanced diligence for each of your situations. But
NSG: yeah, I mean, I could spend probably
NSG: the whole time we have allocated for this talk on this slide, talking through each of your situations.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): Can you? Can you elaborate a bit on that like? Why is the price down better? If it's a more than a million dollar raise.
NSG: Yeah, so it it gives you enough of an argument to actually put a price on the company at that stage. It's best not to delay or defer that if you can. Given the ownership, targets of investors are usually gonna want to. Many of the people that would consider investing at that amount, or with a round of that size, are, gonna ask you to do a price round.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): But the safe will will have a cap right? I mean, if there's a cap on the safe, then there's already a.
NSG: That's yep.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): A price, right?
NSG: That's true. Yeah, again, that's not a general rule, like it's not required. But, like, usually, some of the people you're gonna try to get commitments from are gonna insist that you consider a price round at that at that level
NSG: cause. It's it's helpful and important for us to be able to actually help influence the value of the business at that time
NSG: on the investment side.
Andrew Fernandes: Oh, it's that it's part of the reason for that. From an investor standpoint for portfolio valuation.
NSG: That's part of it, sure.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): So just to be clear. You are saying that because the investors will
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): will favor a price round, we should. We should have a price round right, but as a founder.
NSG: No, no, no, I'm not saying that. No. What I'm saying is is that that is something to seriously consider for a variety of reasons, and one of them is the actual math in the in the cap table, too.
NSG: Right? So like, if you actually play it out, there can actually be a benefit to a founder creating a floor and an anchor for your evaluation at the time, depending on your your growth rate, your trajectory. There could be more of a gap or a lag, and like how your business performs to the next subsequent raise. There's a lot of factors that could go into it that are obviously subject to each of your individual situations. Fuse. But
NSG: it's just a conversation to have. It's not something to accept as one thing or another.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): Got it. So so what I'm hearing is, if if those conditions are met with a safe note, then it's not a bad idea, right?
NSG: Yeah, it's not. It's not. No, it's not. It's not a horrible idea. It is just something like, I know.
NSG: as someone who's seen a few founders go through that and have to make that choice is important, to have thought about it and not just accept one path or the other
NSG: at face value.
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): Yeah, I mean, I mean, I would like to mention here that like I heard from some founder. In fact, here the the Sasha discussion that happened here. So he also kind of
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): mentioned that a safe note should be preferred, even if it's let's say a 2,000,002 and a half or 3 million round, because it's very clean. There are no Draconian clauses in that. It's very simple. It's much easier. It takes much lesser time. So you know. So because of
Piyush Verma (Neural Defend): agency.
NSG: Yeah, I like that. No, that. And that's fair, too. So to be clear like, I'm not. Nothing I can say is a general like hard written rule. These are more signals, and I'm I'm giving you my perspective as an investor, too, which is, of course, biased
NSG: right? But I do try my best to have your best interest in mind, too.
NSG: You all know burn rate and runway, and you understand the formulas here, and you're probably familiar with Comps. But this is like
NSG: the metrics version of it on the company side, as an investor like how we look at comps. I. This was the 1st job I had when I was an investor or at a Vc. As an analyst is, I had to do this kind of math, and it was back when we didn't have easy ways to find the information which was kind of crazy and fun. But yeah, so this is like valuable for you to do, especially as you get to later stages of considering capital raises.
NSG: This is kind of what the forms can look like when it comes to doing.
NSG: You know that calculation and analysis and comparison. I'm sure many of you have heard of the 409 a valuations. This isn't actually good to do, as far as like properly valuing your business from an investor venture standpoint. But it is important to do and to have, when it comes to allocating like equity to employees
NSG: and service providers and things like that. So just know that that will come up at some point. I had to do a 4 9 a for one of my companies way back when when I was working on a strategic partner, deal
NSG: as far as the process. This is something we've kind of covered already, so I'll move a little fast since I know we're getting close to time, but ready set. Go. So you're working on your strategy, traction investment, memo materials, pitch, toolkit pipeline
NSG: and then overall the fundraising process which we definitely covered. So the advice here is that if you're going to fundraise, be committed to fundraising, don't half ask it, because if you half ask it, you're gonna wonder what happened when it's 6 months later, and you don't have all the commitments you need to move forward. And how have you wasted all this time? Not growing your business instead, meeting with lots of people for all those months.
NSG: So tightly choreographed fundraisers seem to be the most like effective and successful ones. And then also, when you're not fundraising. There's a notion that you kind of are always fundraising. So right now, those of you not actively raising rounds. You're having meetings, conversations, meeting people, building relationships and signaling your readiness over time and relatively soon.
NSG: So just be mindful that you are technically always raising. If you do plan to get capital beyond techstars.
NSG: And even if the person you're talking to is an investor, they might know him same as so many other examples of you know, Mitch and whatnot
NSG: so investment minimum mechanics, we've gone over this. So I'm gonna kind of skip it. But that's a little snapshot of what the components of it are. If you didn't already know there's lots of variations to this again. So this is a template. I would encourage you and your business to have
NSG: distinct and unique nuance to what you're including in your investment. Memo. And why? What are you highlighting? What is it about your business? That's important for the investor to understand, to get to that 1st meeting.
NSG: As far as of Oh, go ahead, Meg.
Meg Hall: What is an investment? Memo.
NSG: An investment memo is what a Vc makes
NSG: to present a company within the firm. And usually you can make one
NSG: and basically on my end as like an associate or analyst at the Vc. Firm. I'm taking the materials you gave me, and I'm tweaking them a little bit to put them in my words. But usually the founder is like telling the firm what the memo is.
NSG: So that's a little inside baseball. But it is important for you to know, like you all should effectively be making this on behalf of the firm for them to use, because then they can get it and circulate it more quickly.
Meg Hall: Yes, or what's the format? Typically.
NSG: Yeah, it's usually a Pdf, or like a word, Doc.
NSG: So for Vc, funnel, we're almost done here. So yeah, we're actually 2 slides left or one slide left. So this is what it looks like. They're looking at
NSG: thousands of companies every year. They're only taking a few 100 meetings, and they're only considers to considering a couple of dozen companies.
NSG: and only a few investments get made every year. So just understand where you stand, which is at the very top of this funnel.
NSG: So don't take it personally. Don't take offense, because a lot of Vcs are literally every single day looking at so many different companies, and the biggest mistake that people make.
NSG: I had a long phone call with Jake on Saturday talking to him about this.
NSG: Do not shape your business for Vcs, just because you want to check. And just because they're awesome just because they're super smart
NSG: if they're trying to compel you to take your business, certain type of direction, or a certain kind of way and in in your, in your bones. You're like this isn't the business that I want to build
NSG: like. Call me before you make that decision, because I will talk you off that ledge and remind you that you spend more time in your business than anyone, not even I can tell you what to do
NSG: with it strategically, when it's your company that you're gonna end up spending all of your life and time on. So just be mindful of that. Vcs are extremely confident, and they're extremely smart, and some of them are right about what they're saying to you. But if you take their word over yours, I think by and large you're gonna regret it.
NSG: But just keep that in mind.
Ankur Toshniwal: What? What? What classify? Oh, you're about to do it perfect. Perfect. You know this this was ex kind of I guess I was, gonna I was like what? What? I guess in the previous slide, what is considered a serious follow up
Ankur Toshniwal: like, what? What correspondence cause like we're we want, I just wanna know, like is is getting a certain type of email or a response from investor. When is it like, Oh, like they're actually interested or is like they're doing this. This is like a part of the 2,000. And like, you know.
NSG: They're in the data room.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, it really did.
NSG: Data room. That's the that's the line that that's the sweet spot. That's when, like, okay.
Ankur Toshniwal: Okay.
NSG: All right. We're going on our 3rd date time to take them home.
Ankur Toshniwal: The data room. Basically, they wanted.
NSG: Yeah, let's take them home. That's a great question, though, because you can see here like there's more materials, more interest, more curiosity. But another quick hack, for it is when they ask
NSG: deep nuanced questions.
NSG: like, if they're asking questions that you're like, Oh, okay, like, they're really trying to understand my business like that's usually a great tell.
NSG: So. And just remember, on the empathy side, like, you're trying to find a champion within the firm, because that person who's trying to champion you is gonna look awesome if they succeed, and they're right about you.
NSG: That was like my job was as a venture partners. I was trying to find the golden goose I was trying to advocate for the right kinds of companies and feel great about it, and I was like teaming up with the founder to get the GPS and the IC. To say, yes.
NSG: so I I want to do flag. We're hitting time. So if anybody has to leave, it's still recording, so you won't miss out on whatever's left. I don't think I have a hard stop. Let me confirm.
NSG: I do not have a hard stop, so I'm here, and we can keep going.
NSG: So I saw Andrew, and then Meg.
Andrew Fernandes: No, go ahead, Meg. Actually, I'm going to have to try to get a customer call. We'll circle back later.
Meg Hall: So.
Meg Hall: I have the stupidest question. That's like the most basic thing when they say burn rate. And it's like a fill in the form right? Do you include your like total expenses minus your revenue? And that's your burn rate. Or do you just say your total expenses.
NSG: I think it's the former.
Meg Hall: But the like. Just what's what's being subtracted right? So like you take so like you would do the.
NSG: Let's go back. Yeah, I think I think if I heard you right, it's the former. So let me go back to it.
Chris Wong: Yeah, I.
NSG: That's your burn. That's your runway.
Meg Hall: Okay.
Chris Wong: Yeah, you. Sometimes they look at it in in the operating cash flow is the operating cash expense. So it's like, it's the same kind of concept. Yeah, revenue minus expenses or expenses
Chris Wong: plus revenue or whatever. However, you wanna say it, yeah.
Meg Hall: Thank you. Sorry. I was never quite sure if I was filling in the right number. There.
NSG: Problem.
Meg Hall: That's it for me.
Meg Hall: Do you guys see, Neil.
Chloe Lannert: It looks like he's connecting, connecting another device.
Meg Hall: Okay. I'm like.
Chloe Lannert: Having some issues. He he's super frozen.
Chloe Lannert: Anyone else have.
NSG: I'm here.
Chloe Lannert: Questions for a moment.
NSG: Can you guys hear me?
Chloe Lannert: Cool.
NSG: Decades.
NSG: This is the second time in the past week that my computer is like crashed and burned. I'm so sorry. It's a new computer. So I don't know what's going on.
NSG: But I'm here. Let's keep talking. Let me see if there's more to cover with the deck.
NSG: But any other questions on people's minds while I pull this up. Back up, get my computer rebooted.
Meg Hall: One of the things that is like kind of stressing me out that I'm like realized. I've been doing wrong this whole time, is I was all of my financials. I've been like calculating them as cash on hand, like cash versus accrual based accounting.
Meg Hall: And apparently I've been doing that wrong the whole time, so I don't know, maybe telling everybody else. So nobody else does. That issue.
NSG: Yeah. How'd you find out.
Meg Hall: Because I went back and watched the investor or not the investor that, like
Meg Hall: the second one of the
Meg Hall: the building, your financial model, and he specifically calls out that you're supposed to be using accrual base. And I was like, I haven't been doing that.
NSG: Yeah.
NSG: Okay. So I do have a little bit more left to cover. Let's see here. But I'm glad you shared that. Meg, that is.
NSG: hopefully, you're the only one in that situation.
Antoine Carriere: Sorry, accrual, accrual, based for for what I mean we we are doing a cash P and L. And so I'm I'm wondering what they should be worried about.
Meg Hall: So
Meg Hall: apparently you're supposed to be doing accrual based, which is like, let's say, if you sign for an annual contract, right? So one example is like I took, like the the whole year's worth of money from one customer back in December.
Meg Hall: and I was only counting their revenue in December, not for every single month, and apparently you're supposed to like butter. Spread that amount over all the months that you're serving them so that that way you don't have these big ups and down likes and dips in your revenue.
Meg Hall: and then I guess that's what the standard is, right. So it's not great that I'm showing the cash like it depends on when you're serving them. And like, if you're actually billing them for annual, or if you're billing them for monthly.
Antoine Carriere: I mean, I would. I would just have a a slightly different recommendation in terms of
Antoine Carriere: of kind of it depends what you want to do if you want to show a smooth trajectory. Yes, please do a row, because that's going to smoothen things out.
Antoine Carriere: If you want to know your cash position.
Antoine Carriere: you'd better be cash cash based. So I'm I'm not I. I guess I'm not sure what the.
Meg Hall: I think it's
Meg Hall: you're, I think, in that. In that call he was saying, that you're you should have a cash
Meg Hall: report, and then you should also have your P. And L. Should be on accrual basis.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, I mean, I kind of the-the- you.
Antoine Carriere: Maybe we can take that offline if if that's something that you're that you're
Antoine Carriere: My, my only my only point is accrual requires you to have rules to accrue.
Antoine Carriere: And this is this is creating kind of issues for you, or potentially, it's creating issues for you. And so if you do have an accountant that is doing that for you, you should absolutely probably do a cruel if you're a small company.
Antoine Carriere: It's going to cost you a little bit of of time and effort to do a cool. And so then, if you're if you're looking at it from the perspective of presenting something to an investor and showing them how smooth your revenue is. You can absolutely do it. From a you you can. You can kind of present an actual view of your of your accounting.
Antoine Carriere: but I wouldn't necessarily.
Antoine Carriere: in any case, by the way you do you do what you want? So I'm I'm not. I was trying to figure out what I was doing wrong. I'm I'm I'm not concerned for myself at this point. Well, just for you, so that you know.
NSG: Yeah.
Antoine Carriere: Cash. We do cash, and we do, and we do. we just use accrual as a kind of a a presentation trick. That is, allowing for a smoothening of your, of our, of our kind, of a past
Antoine Carriere: past performance, which which makes total sense because you should. There's a there's a good rationale to accrue your revenue as
Antoine Carriere: range of settings.
Meg Hall: You wanna sorry about the the distraction you wanna get back on track.
NSG: Good, all good. We're already in bonus time. Y'all so. It's it's not a problem, and I'm almost done so. No worries. But, Antoine, I I think you're gonna be sending some people some invoices pretty soon for your consulting services, which I'm grateful for. So thank you.
NSG: So we're almost done here. There's versions of decks. I've seen better versions of of decks and creative versions that are customized to companies, but this is the rough and cut outline. So use this as a starting point if you don't have one already. But obviously create your own nuance and variance, depending on what you need to emphasize about your company. That's important. Given what you've learned and your question bank and the heat map and the conversations you've had. but just know that, like
NSG: it's
NSG: one thing that I I found to be effective. But it's not always the case is like troy talks about holding the deck hostage.
NSG: So the whole idea is like, you don't just send an investor a deck when they ask you like, maybe send them a teaser or something simple, and you ask to actually walk them through it, very similar to what you would do with the financial model. So if you have an investor and wants you to send them your financial model, you're like, let me actually meet with you to talk you through it, because there's things you might interpret or not understand unless I can explain it as I go. So just keep that in mind and know what versions of documents you'd be. You should be sending Async about your company relative to what you should walk them through. Live?
NSG: So for the investment deck, it's almost never gonna be the case that you're just gonna have
NSG: all the time to walk through every slide, and they're gonna say nothing.
NSG: I would say like, it's rare if ever where you are. Just gonna pitch your company with uninterrupted no questions. So just be mindful of that. And make sure you have a single objective for every slide that you're walking them through.
NSG: I've also seen founders not use a deck at all
NSG: and have success, and only use the deck when they need to, or when they need to pull something up that specific, or they get asked about
NSG: that means that you're really sharp. And you really know your numbers. And you're really good at storytelling and talking about your company. So that's something to consider as well.
NSG: For example, I raised over half the funds for the you know capital at the 8 million almost that I raised half the time I wasn't using a debt
NSG: to do it. I was just able to talk about like the fund, the return to profile, answer all the questions, and I send them supplemental materials afterwards.
NSG: So rough outline for what that looks like.
NSG: and then to go deeper. So we call it the drill down deck. But the idea is like
NSG: you have specific decks that go super deep within a category within a subject matter that's important, and every investor has a different category. They may care about or multiple categories that they care about having these, like really played out and fleshed out, is expected now very impressive, and if you're not doing it, some of your competitors that are trying to raise capital from similar investors are doing
NSG: so definitely. Take the time to like, really be thorough and thinking through these facets of your business.
NSG: I think this is like especially helpful. This is something that isn't always talked about or discussed or shared, but I think, as far as like us, giving you the advantage of techstars as at techstars. This is one of the, I think good reference points of like this drill down deck piece is like really, really good
NSG: keeping it simple, right? Some of you all have way too many words on your slides, and you're trying to jam in too much information, and you have too much to say. If you have a lot to say, stretch it out, break it up, break it down, make sure you have very clear points that you're making every time, and don't overwhelm people. By wanting to say more than you need to.
NSG: Data room, like, I said, is, now it's like this is like the final step. This is like, all right, it's time to get serious. If you're trying to look at my data room. That means that we're talking like
NSG: like we're talking final meetings. We're talking potential, you know, offers and term sheets basically as a as a next step and follow up. And you fully understand their timeline and process for getting to a commitment.
NSG: This is something we're actively helping you with through our weekly kind of challenge to have you all complete the data room exercise? But obviously, again, it changes for every founder. And I think one example that's important. And, Chris, I think about you all the time for this. But this is more of a training ground. So you don't have to worry too much. But investor updates
NSG: right. The investor updates, not weekly. But you know, regularly at some cadence is going to be important for an investor to basically go. Have they been consistent with how they communicate with their stakeholders about what's going on. So again, like techstars program, not the end of the world like we're good. And my job is to make you all look great to everybody that looks at you afterwards, but just know that the reason we're challenging you in these ways and training is because you now will leave our program with the muscles that you need to actually get the job done.
NSG: As far as building out the investment pipeline do a ton of research.
NSG: If you're lazy about this
NSG: 9 times out of 10, or maybe 99 times out of a hundred, you're not going to be successful
NSG: because it will. It's a reflection of your commitment to taking on capital from other people that you want to be your partners.
NSG: So you should take every interaction and investor that you reach out to seriously. If you treat them like. They're throwaways, I think every now and then, if you have an awesome business. You can probably take that approach
NSG: by and large. I couldn't recommend enough for you all to take it so seriously that every gesture, every interaction that you make to an investor.
NSG: it's potentially worth at least 6 figures to you
NSG: and hitting your bank account. And if you take that level of respect and and and kind of thinking to your investment process.
NSG: It will become very obvious to every investor that you take your job very seriously as a founder to finance your business.
NSG: Yeah, building out the spreadsheet, making sure that you have clear understanding of who you're trying to get introduced to, and why and from whom sometimes founders like to send people like me a a spreadsheet to like, go through and click who I can connect you with
NSG: much better experience for me personally is when a founder sends me 3, 4, 5 names of people. Do you know these people? Usually I do. I I say yes, because they already did the work to know that I know them. And I'm like, I'm happy to make these introductions. So send me individual forwardable emails and those will get shot out.
NSG: Sometimes they hear back, sometimes I don't. Founders are great at keeping me accountable. Well, they'll follow up within a few days or a week later and go, hey, did you? Did you hear back? Did you hear? Back? You know that's usually the way to do it, and also run the process with grace. Not every investor is perfect, and they're not always trying to ignore you or ghost you, but it can happen so. Just be mindful that these are human beings, and some are great and some suck
NSG: final few slides. What makes a good investor? They have experience in venture or in the space that you're working in. They have a background or a track record. That's successful. Not all do. Some of them have capital and are well meaning, but don't have a background or track record yet. Great network to connect you with.
NSG: Add value through mentorship and advice. This is a good way to challenge them when you're on the call. Don't just answer their questions. Have questions for them about your business, and try to gauge like how much they can actually grok and understand your company and be valuable to you. And then also talk to other people to to validate through referrals
NSG: and then also, just like I said, like they're not your friend, but like kinda they are like
NSG: you should be able to hang out with them like. They're the reason why I splurged on Tahoe.
NSG: I knew you all would all get along, but I also wanted you to know that I'm cool, and I can get along with you, too, so hopefully that came through and then as far as how to identify your target investors, there's a lot of ways to do it now. And it's easier than ever because you guys have this
NSG: creepy AI stuff that you can leverage now to get as much data as you want very quickly.
NSG: so definitely take advantage of that and pay attention to all the different nooks and crannies people find investors in the strangest ways, and the strangest places.
NSG: So be as creative as you can possibly be here with how you're finding the people that you know deserve a spot on your cap table?
NSG: Yeah, again. Like I, I just made this point. So thanks. Text our slides. And then once you're there, control the process, keep it tight. This doesn't always work, but ideally, you're front loading and concentrating all your meetings to move quickly. You're running a process, and whoever's not keeping up with your process as an investor. That's too bad for them.
NSG: if you've got it. Now, if you don't have it, these processes get drawn out and you end up saying, I'm gonna close my round in 2 months, and then you end up being 4, 5 months in still doing a rolling close, still trying to hang on still trying to make the case. And that's not like
NSG: a death knell. That's not like, you know, the worst thing in the world, but it's also not ideal, and it's not enjoyable for you as a founder, to drag out your fundraise so definitely make sure you time it in a way. I I wasn't at the event, but I heard that the puzzle founder had, like some very like
NSG: practical and maybe clever feedback for you guys on how to structure venture stuff and close rounds and whatnot. I think some of that advice is probably legit and and true and worth paying attention to and revisiting.
NSG: Yeah, that's it. That's the end of my slides.
NSG: 16min overtime.
NSG: Let's go, boss. Man.
Antoine Carriere: Sorry I have a 1 more question I know I'm dragging you into. So what's what's a a way to redirect the question about the data room into a a second meeting.
Antoine Carriere: Just kind of give me a tidbit of how do you redirect effectively? What? What do you reply?
NSG: When they're asking for the data room. And it's already, too. It's too early in the process.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah.
NSG: Okay, I would say.
NSG: And this is just for me, right? So I think that I would encourage you to get more more than one perspective. Because I'm
NSG: I'm not. I haven't been on the end of the founder lately, so I don't know what market is now for that or what the best practice is.
NSG: but what my instinct is that
NSG: you would have to challenge the investor to understand what stages of their process remain.
NSG: So you would ask them, What more do you like? What? What do you want to know specifically about the company? And also, what's your commitment level, currently, or or stage of the process are we at? Because if we're going to the data room, we want to make sure that we're towards the final stages of our diligence with you, cause that's when things get to, you know, get pretty serious.
NSG: So something along those lines is what I'd recommend is just like signaling, like them, signaling to you their commitment and interest. And then, once you have that you gauge your comfort level as to how long you want the process to be prolonged.
NSG: But that's your opportunity, Antoine, at that point, to let the investor know like, Hey, I know where I'm at with my process, and I don't let people into my data room unless I know that we're having a serious conversation about your commitment.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, I'm I'm always worried sorry for. And I I really don't want to take other people's time to ask questions. So please.
NSG: We're in encore. We're in bonus time here. You're good.
Antoine Carriere: Okay. So so the the difficulty I have with this is kind of role playing it.
Antoine Carriere: They might say something like, we're super super. We're very excited. We absolutely want kind of to to invest as quickly as possible we preempt, etcetera. And so
Antoine Carriere: so should I. Kind of maybe I should pivot to one of the the David's
Antoine Carriere: David Cohen's kind of idea of like. Oh, so
Antoine Carriere: do. I have your commitment for x at y valuation today provided. So it's kind of it's extract some sort of commitment from them.
Antoine Carriere: Even on the already and kind of and.
NSG: Hmm.
Antoine Carriere: Because I'm I'm I'm trying. I'm I'm having having a hard time saying No, without saying like no.
Antoine Carriere: I don't want to. I mean without sounding like an asshole.
NSG: Well, I I guess to be clear, Antoine. I I do want to make sure I'm I'm communicating clearly. I'm not saying you should insist on a commitment before you give them a data room like I. They kind of need the data room to feel comfortable making the commitment.
NSG: Does that make sense.
Antoine Carriere: Yeah.
NSG: Do you want to understand what steps remain in the process like? If you're early on, you had one meeting and they'll yes, send me the data room.
NSG: That's a little premature.
NSG: like, I hold on like we, we need to go on a second date before I take you home.
NSG: That's that's what I'm recommending.
NSG: Is that clear?
Antoine Carriere: Yeah, no, I I understand, that's clear. But
Antoine Carriere: and I understand what what Chloe was saying on the on the chat. Thank you, Chloe. That's kind of
Antoine Carriere: the the ask for commitment is typically post data room provision. It's meeting 3 or 4 or 5 etcetera. The the
Antoine Carriere: the thing is
Antoine Carriere: kind of, I'm I'm trying to find an elegant way to ask for the next meeting. So it's basically instead of kind of asking them for the data room. Maybe I should just kind of take the question for the data room and and just kind of sidestep not not address it. Just say, sure, we do have a data room and would be happy to share. Can we? Can we make can we schedule our next meeting?
Antoine Carriere: not oppose the 2 like before I give you the data room. Let's meet the second time. Just just take the take the take the ask, and commit to providing the data room at some point and and just kind of move on to the next meeting.
Antoine Carriere: scheduling.
NSG: Yeah, I mean, you want to understand where you're at in their process. And then you want to decide to share the data room at a at a at a stage when you feel like
NSG: the conversation is further along, and they're getting more serious about considering you as an investment.
Antoine Carriere: Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
NSG: Anything else.
NSG: He's leaving, meeting.
Antoine Carriere: I've lost. I've lost everyone.
Antoine Carriere: It's all good man.
NSG: And it's all good, cool.
Antoine Carriere: Thank you.
NSG: All right! Peace out!